We're half an hour away from the open in
Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Shanghai. You're
watching the China Show and I'm
Annabelle Drooers with David and Glaz.
>> Good Friday morning. Let's get to your
top stories today. The dollar set for
its best week in almost a year with
global political risk in focus amid this
lack of US economic numbers. Stocks
across the Asia Pacific under pressure
after Wall Street's rally stalls. China
unveils new measures to clamp down on
price wars, pledging to step up
investigations and penalties for
violators.
>> Also ahead here in shows, a pulse check
on the Chinese consumer with executives
from hotel operator H Group and a
folding bike maker Tahon.
>> And raise your glasses.
>> Happy Friday.
>> We're going to be looking at Hong Kong's
FnB scene with the co-founder of
Barleonei just named the world's best.
[Music]
Good morning. Welcome to the show before
we wrap up the week uh full session
ahead and it's looking like a return of
many things. A return of the dollar,
some of these shorts perhaps getting
squeezed. a lot of the extreme moves
we've seen dollar yen for example 153
and some verbal push back coming through
um out of the politics there of course
euro is now trading at yeah 115 because
of what we're seeing as far as the
dollar uh is concerned so in fact worst
week well best week for the US dollar
going back to uh about November of last
year consequently it's the worst week
for the euro flip the page please going
back to same time last year Aussie Kiwi
cross just to highlight the fact that
when you look at some of these
technicals do indicate that maybe that
extremeness has the weakness has reached
fairly extreme levels. Right. Okay. So,
we're doing not very well in the Asia
Pacific. We would be doing much worse
were it not for this sort of pick up
we're seeing in this reopening in the
South Korean markets. All that being
said is it's really a week where we are
set as things stand to wrap up the week
flats. Gold, of course, has had a
fantastic run. We're closing in, by the
way, to the downside on 4,000. And of
course, in case you missed that
headline, flip the page. uh silver
futures topping well silver topping 50
for the very first time ever. Uh a
couple of big names to track going into
the open today. Hai group of course
which is now listed in Hong Kong. Big
drop overnight. some of the EV plays in
focus and of course the pullback we're
seeing across the broader Chinese equity
complex in the uh in the Thursday
session going into the Thursday session
in the US and futures are doing this uh
keeping an eye on the fix of course
fairly strong one that we got out the
PBOC uh yesterday uh and of course we're
also looking at this continued rally
we're seeing in copper for example and
other metals as well but yes it's uh
it's going to be looking it's looking
like a busy docket today here Bill
>> yeah it is really and and if we take a
look what else we're going to be
tracking in the session today. I mean,
you mentioned some of those sectors in
focus. You've got metals for instance,
and you're also tracking what you're
seeing in gold, what you're seeing in
silver that again, as you said, that
little bit of a retreat. Uh, but also
what's happening with the semiconductor
space. There's been a huge selloff we
really saw in names like Qua Hong, SMIC.
So, the big foundaries late into the
session on Friday. We can dig into
details on on why exactly that could be
happening. Yuan, you mentioned that fix
definitely stronger than expected as we
came back from the golden week holiday.
Lee Chang has has has landed in North
Korea. He's there on a three-day visit.
So, we'll get more details on on that
cooperation. Essentially, they're
pledging and also the price wall rules.
This is a big one essentially. Uh we
know it's been a big issue. It's
services is a really tough industry to
crack down on price competition and and
we've certainly seen that intense
competition between JD, Maitto, Alibaba,
new rules apparently on the way. And
then there's always the NBA. And I think
you know the most about this one. NBA
China back after 6 years.
>> Uh do I? But but
>> well I feel like it's your it's your
vibe, isn't it?
>> Is basketball your vibe?
>> I know how to say it in Mandarin though.
>> Oh well tell us
>> talent show. That's basketball. Minman
Minman Low China correspondent is going
to correct my Yes, you can check me
right now. We're talking about we could
talk about the NBA. We're talking about
markets, price wars, and this joint
statement which came through out of I
think two ministries in China talking
about how these the the the rules around
how to curb these uh intense
competition. Minman, our China
correspondent here with us of course on
set to talk us through. You want to talk
about the NBA?
>> I actually don't know a lot about NBA
play basketball.
>> Okay. Okay. Let's
>> I'm too short. David,
>> have you heard of Mugsy Bogues? Anyway,
that's a different story. um tell us
about this joint statement and how the
market's likely going to react to this.
>> Yes, I mean this has been, you know, a
long time in the making, right? We've
heard, you know, market regulators
summoning some of these companies that
are involved in intense price
competition, but they're upping the NT
now, at least the tone from this
statement from the NDRC, the economic
planner, and the market regulator is
saying that they're going to step up
price supervision, investigation, and
penalties as well. Now, the statement
was quite short. It didn't spell out
exactly what the penalties are going to
be but they said that any companies that
ignore repeated warnings and continue to
engage in illegal pricing activity there
will be penalties and so far we have
seen for example um the food delivery
sector is one that is in focus right but
those three companies JD Alibaba mtoan
they have already pledged to step back
from the competition back in August
another sector to watch is the EV sector
because those companies have been going
against the warnings of the government
they still are keeping prices at the
same level or some even steepening
discounts. So that's where we might see
maybe more actions being taken as China
tries to ramp up this anti-involution
campaign to try to break that
deflationary spiral.
>> Okay, bit of a hard pivot, but we're
talking as well about a Bloomberg scoop
uh against or concerning TP Link. This
is one of the major uh router companies
in the US and also in China. But but
what can you tell us about about the
exclusive information we we learned?
Yes. So, we're understanding from
sources now that the US government is
weighing to issue this initial
determination that TP Link is a national
security threat to the US. Now, this
investigation has been ongoing since
last year. They're investigating the
China ties of TPLink, which of course
originally it is a Chinese company, but
the company has over the past year
really intensified efforts to distance
itself from China. In fact, it had split
itself up into a Chinese and a US unit.
and the the head of the US unit did give
an interview some some time back. He
said that he has clearly chosen the US
with his actions. He has given up his
apartment in a Hong Kong skyscraper,
moved to the US, invested hundreds of
millions into US factories and R&D
facilities. But lawmakers are saying
that there are still these ties to
China. it could make the company
vulnerable to Chinese hacks even though
there has been no evidence whatsoever
that uh the company is complicit with
these hackers which so far in the past
it has affected not just TPLink routers
but also American routers as well
>> uh another hard pivot for you here
Minman the unreliable entity list
China's been adding some names there
what do we know
>> yes so there are 14 new companies that
are added including some drone companies
but the main one the big one is tech
insights which is a Canadian company and
it's subsidiaries in US, uh, Europe and
South Korea are added as well. And this
is a company that is very well known for
the tearowns of Huawei products that has
managed to unveil a lot of, uh,
restricted components from TSMC, for
example, um, you know, including as well
high bandwidth memory chips from SKH
Highix and Samsung. So, it's been very
critical to help the industry understand
just how far uh, Chinese chipm
capabilities are at at this moment. But
the Chinese Commerce Ministry has said
that the company is helping foreign
governments suppress Chinese companies
and making malicious comments about
China and going against Chinese
objections to engage in military
technical cooperation with Taiwan. So
again, in some ways it could be seen as
a symbolic move because in some ways it
doesn't really stop the company from
tearing down Huawei products. It just
prevents it from dealing or trading with
Chinese companies and individuals.
>> Yeah. And we should note as well that
we've have regularly published tech
insights uh results or reports at
Bloomberg as well. But that's our China
correspondent there, Mim Lo. So uh Dave,
the other story of course and Taiwan's
shut today, but it's TSMC results. We
got those monthly sales figures
yesterday and and strong strong really
across the board. I mean the quirk of
the Taiwan stock exchange is that if you
listed on it, you do need to to report
monthly sales. So yesterday we got the
September figures, but you can add to
that July and August. So you get a very
good sense of what's the third quarter
reading going to look like when we get
the official results next week. And and
it did show demand holding up
essentially. We saw an acceleration of
around 30% increase in third quarter
sales. And it should show as well that
that revenue beat on on estimates even
though the company does have a sort of
tendency to to guide pretty cautiously
as well. And you know the fact that you
have a 30% handle on that and yet some
in the market think that it it wasn't
enough just underscores I guess how high
the bar is right now for the AI trade to
keep giving right and I think also
around that same time a few hours after
that I think Taiwan released export
numbers for the month and you know that
came in at 33% very good numbers a lot
of economies would kill uh for an export
clip that right but we're coming off 34%
the estimates were 38% but I to
underscore that. But yes, uh we did get
a decline across the ADRs over Taiwan.
Yeah, of course we're looking at
obviously chip stocks
>> for unrelated reasons in in mainland and
China and but of course the Japanese
cohort is also going to be very much in
focus today.
>> Yeah, that's right that the big
equipment makers and the ones that are
supplying into TSMC as well.
It does sort of it is an important
indication when you've got that general
criticism that's floating around right
now of some of these deals looking very
circular but actually you could probably
take TSMC's results as suggesting that
AI demand does look to be remaining
somewhat intact.
>> Well, Microsoft gave us something to
chew on.
>> Well, this is also interesting as well
because you got this out yesterday.
Microsoft or what we're hearing is that
its data center crunch is going to
continue for longer than previously
outlined. So, really just underscoring
how it could be struggling to keep up
with cloud demand. Let's bring in our
tech reporter newly panel for the
latest. So what exactly are we are we
learning about this and and how
significant as well as the crunch for
Microsoft possibly? Yeah, a great scoop
by our colleague Brody Ford in the US um
saying that Microsoft according to
people familiar with the matter are
actually seeing physical constraints on
where they can put enough servers in
places like Northern Virginia and Texas
and they need to add these uh for the
GPU and for the normal sort of
traditional cloud hosting services that
are key particularly GPUs to um to
training models and and building up AI
systems. Now, it's important to
Microsoft because their Azure um unit is
one of their fastest growing. In uh
fiscal 2025, they had 75 billion dollars
in revenues. Um so, yeah, a really
interesting insight into you mentioned
the larger question about demand for AI
services and according to to Brody's
information, um Microsoft can't keep up.
>> And so, so what's the big picture here?
What does this remind us of?
>> Yeah. Well, again, there's a big
question about whether these billions of
dollars that people are investing in in
infrastructure u in data centers in in
all this technology is going to be worth
it because a lot of the the AI services
are so speculative. Okay, we have some
some that we can use every day now, but
a lot of this is anticipating what this
is going to do. And I think it's
interesting because it shows actual
consumer demand, client demand on
Microsoft's side. I think it's also a
reminder that the plumbing of all this
AI infrastructure buildout is something
that is still being built. Every time
you ask Chachi PD to give you something
or Gemini to create an image or co-pilot
to summarize document that create that
that has a demand on compute computers
have to crunch that data and return it
to you. And so as consumer and and
enterprise demand for this goes up there
really is um apparently according to
Microsoft um a real big demand from from
clients for it. So it's an interesting
example of not just theoretical usage
but but what's happening inside
Microsoft that they can't keep up with
some of the demand for this stuff
>> which is a good problem to have. I think
if you look at it that way newly thank
you so much newly Pernell there of
course our uh our tech reporter and just
just to mention as well and why I was
scrambling for for for some of my notes
here because coming up on show is here
in about 18 minutes from now. So Tao
Shaw Wang out of agility is an uber AI
bull. So we're going to be talking about
before we talk about Golden Week, we'll
talk about really her uh how they're
massively long semiconductors, big tech
hyperscalers and also they're also long
on uranium which she thinks should be
the go-to source
uh for energy as far as this is
concerned. Now the reason we talk about
that and just to pivot as well here
we're looking at what did we just talk
about? Oh yeah, H
>> Golden Week.
>> Yes, Golden Week. Yes,
>> we've got H World Group joining us. It's
one of the biggest hotel operators in
China. So we'll have that guest as well
joining us just ahead to talk through
what they saw over the the travel period
as well. But we are counting down to the
open of trade in Shanghai, Shenzhen,
Hong Kong. Futures pointing to a little
bit of weakness. We'll get the open in
about 15 minutes from now. This is the
China show.
[Music]
Right, happy Friday. Welcome back. Uh,
you're watching the China Show. I'm just
waiting for that. The reference rate for
today should be out now. In fact, the
bottom of the screens is actually that
I've been told in my ear it is out.
Okay. Uh, 71048 against the dollar.
Okay. Wow. This was
Okay. This is quite This is a strong one
actually. Okay. Let me just crunch
numbers in my head. I'll get back to you
in a moment. But yes, I mean the initial
reaction already in the Chinese currency
offshore is already showing you that
this the market is adjusting to a
midpoint which was set lower on the
exchange rate than I guess most people
in the market had been expecting. I
think more on this in a moment of
course.
>> Yeah, and I think we were talking
yesterday about 710 really being sort of
the the line in the sand as well for
now. But we'll get more context on that
in a moment. But in the meantime, New
Zealand's finance minister says she
expects the country to return to growth
in the third quarter. That's with
further acceleration as well on the way
in 2026. We spoke exclusively to Nicola
Willis and asked her why the economy has
been so fragile with a bigger than
expected contraction in the second
quarter.
Look, we we know with uh seasonal
variation since co that those numbers
have been jumping up around and there
could be some correction to that figure
at a later update particularly uh given
some of the technical factors in that
measure. But we were expecting a
negative second quarter. Uh and what we
saw is after six months of strong growth
and recovery prior to that, including a
0.9% positive rate in the first quarter
of the year, uh that on the 1st of April
when the Trump tariff announcement
occurred, that really knocked confidence
out of a lot of New Zealand businesses
and investors who looked at that global
uncertainty and for a global trading
nation really worried about where that
would go. We're now in a much more
settled environment. We know what New
Zealand's tariffs are and we've watched
our exporters adjust very quickly uh to
that new reality and many of the worst
side scenarios uh that had been
predicted haven't occurred and so we're
confidently predicting that growth will
have returned in the third quarter and
should accelerate in the fourth quarter
particularly helped along uh with an
official cash rate that continues to
fall. Yeah, I do want to you mentioned
business confidence there and uh the
latest business confidence report showed
firms planning to reduce investment. How
much of a concern is that for you?
Well, we've worked uh as a government in
this year's budget to provide more
impetus for business investment through
the investment boost tax policy uh which
offers uh a 20% write down on asset
investments against tax bills. And
that's directly uh intended to be a tax
incentive to encourage investment and
firms have certainly said that that is
something uh that will make some
business cases stack up that wouldn't
otherwise. And as we look ahead with a
lower official cash rate with inflation
now having stabilized back and banned uh
and a government that is ultimately pro
business reforming deregulating we
believe that's creating the conditions
in which businesses will feel more
confidence over the coming months.
>> All right. So you're expressing some
optimism but of course we had the RBNZ
the Reserve Bank cutting rates by 50
basis points last week saying it's open
also to further reductions. Does that
suggest to you the central bank doesn't
share your optimism that it's worried
the economy won't recover?
>> Well, I think that was uh the Reserve
Bank doing its job of reacting to data
in the second quarter that as you
pointed out was much more negative than
had been forecast and quite different
from what they had forecast and what had
informed their earlier monetary policy
path. So uh the bank is reacting
accordingly and of course with that uh
lower official cash rate that in itself
will be uh an inject for the economy and
that's in my mind monetary policy doing
its job. As a government uh we're
working alongside the Reserve Bank by
ensuring that our fiscal settings give
them that room to move uh on interest
rates by ensuring that we're not
overstimulating the economy and that we
have a path of fiscal consolidation.
>> There we go. That was New Zealand
finance minister Nicola Willis there
with our colleague Paul Allen and just
to mention as well right so the key was
really one of the big negative surprises
as far as the performance this week was
concerned there's the Kiwi there's the
yen there's the euro and you put all
that together and suddenly you're
looking at the best week for the US
dollar because of the weak side of the
other side uh going back to 11 months
back right and just specifically on the
kiwi itself we talked about this cross
on the Aussie and the kiwi the 14-day
RSI there is actually now 73. So that
the weakness there might be pushing
towards the more extreme end uh of
things. Uh let's put everything together
for you. David Finery, our FX and rate
strategist is in Singapore for us.
David, is this is this a strong dollar
story or is it a strong dollar because
of just the on the other side of the
trade?
>> Yeah, I think it's the latter if we're
being honest on this occasion. I mean,
you look at the dollar. Normally
everyone talks about the dollar. dollar
this because of GDP or Fed or whatever.
No one's talking about the Fed. No one's
even really talking about the US
government shutdown. Um and obviously
the shutdown is not positive for growth
which wouldn't be positive for the
dollar. And normally that would weigh on
the dollar but in this circumstance the
dollar's going no we're actually
rallying. And why is that? It's the
other side of the equation. Certainly
with the euro we have issues in France
with sterling. We have worries about the
budget there. So RBNZ rate cuts in
Japan. we have uh worries over Takahichi
and how fiscal policy will work out
there. Will it impact BOJ? So all these
other currencies are it's there in the
fall at the moment whereas the dollar is
just benefiting from that. Um certainly
the euro is one I definitely would
watch. It's got the biggest waiting by
quite a lot actually whether in the
dollar index or the Bloomberg dollar
index. So sort of where that goes.
Everyone sort of follows with it. But
the other big players being sterling and
the yen have obviously been weakening as
well by themselves. So it's really the
that side of the equation that is
dominating and the dollar just win
winning by both default. Basically none
of these currencies fiat currencies are
looking attractive but the dollar's the
best of the worst. I think that's what a
good way to look at it.
>> We just saw the PBC setting the the yuan
fix nearly 300 pips stronger than the
estimate. How much do we want to read
into that do you think?
>> Yeah. Well, I think certainly compared
to the estimate, there's can always be a
big range going on there. So, a big
divergence. I think at the end of the
day when it comes to PBOC, look,
historically, it likes its currency. It
knows the dollar strengthening. So, it
knows the E1 is under pressure. But any
movement, whether it be appreciate or
depreciate, it likes it gradual. It
never wants sudden movements. It
certainly doesn't want any sudden
movement weakness because it's worried
about these one-sided bets. So it
understands currencies will go up, will
go down, but it's quite happy to let
them go on a gradual measure um so that
you don't see this one-sided bet. So I
think POC at the end of day is going to
go look we'll let the currency move, but
as long as it grinds whatever direction
they'll be happy.
>> David, thanks very much for joining us.
That was our FX and rate strategist
David Finy there in Singapore. And we
are just uh under 10 minutes away from
the open of mainland and Hong Kong
markets this morning. Futures are
telling us we're going to see some
weakness here across the board. So, we
actually came on stronger yesterday at
the at the start of trading after golden
week holidays, but uh we are setting up
for a day in the red here. The PBOC fix
of course for the Yuan very much in
focus and we're seeing that move and the
offshore yuan there, but you can see
there the context the yuan fix nearly
300 pips stronger than the estimate.
We'll have plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
[Music]
Welcome back. It's looking like we're
going to get a couple hundred points to
the downside again today. Hangen Tech is
down about 90. I was I was referring to
the Hen index, but yes, one and a half%
to the downside. In fact, we're looking
at tech specifically today with some of
the platform companies in focus.
>> Yeah, that's right. So, we know about
the anti-involution trend in China and
how they're really trying to clamp down
on on on price competition. Now, it
seems like regulators have got these
platform companies in their sites. So,
Alibaba, JD, Mtoan engaged in a very
fierce price war. Uh we are hearing that
they're going to be looking at cost
investigations, price supervision,
enforcement actions. That's the actions
of regulators that that we're being told
will take place. Also, what we're
tracking in the session today is what's
going to be happening in the in the chip
field or chip realm. You're seeing inner
science there already under pressure,
but that is also another story for us.
Yes, yesterday it was down in the
session, but we are hearing the company
or the companies announced it's going to
be raising more than one.5 billion Hong
Kong dollars in a share placement and
that's priced at a discount to the to
the last close. HSBC, another name that
we're tracking here today.
>> I mean, a downgrade at Jeffre. Is it is
it kind of any surprise, Dave?
>> Well, I mean, they they're giving up the
buyback because they paid a premium for
30%. Now, longer term, is that an issue?
Shorter term, it might be an issue. The
market's reacting that way. The open is
next.
[Music]
Good morning. We are gearing up for the
Friday session. I'm already thinking
about the weekend. Um later on in the
show, we have the world's best bar
joining us
>> just to highlight the the Friday theme
we have on shows today.
>> It is a big Friday theme. Uh but but
Barleon was just crowned the world's
best bar. The first time we've seen an
Asia bar taking or Asia based bar taking
that top prize as well. So we will get
into the details of that. But in the
meantime as well, I guess a reason
people might need to have a drink is
just how we're setting up for the
session in China today because it does
look like we're going to open uh in the
red.
>> Yeah. Um in fact, if you've been
tracking this from yesterday, I wouldn't
be surprised if you already have a stiff
drink in hand as you look at some of
these stiff losses going into the open
today. Uh we're still trying to figure
out it might just be valuations, might
be something else. The trigger for that
chip loss, the drop in chip stocks
yesterday. We can get to that later, but
yes, ESI 300 following the reopen
yesterday. We were up as much as 2% at
one point. We are pulling back from that
as well. Uh and of course the fix of the
day. But yes, go ahead.
>> Yeah. No, I mean the fix of the day is
really something to be keeping a track
on too because we saw it a lot stronger
than the estimate nearly 300 pips. But
uh the and the yuan has been reacting to
that. But yeah, you mentioned that the
chip moves we saw yesterday late into
the session. Actually Cambercon held up
pretty well. That's the chip designer.
But you can see here down nearly well
2.7%. I'm going to get more details into
just the valuations we see as well and
are those looking a little bit too
stretched. Are you seeing as well that
the big the big uh companies there Quo
Motai, CL, Pingan, all of these are in
negative negative territory so far. Uh
as we said though was actually a pretty
solid start back after the golden week
holiday with the CSI 300 ending up 1.5%.
So, a reversal uh today so far. But ch
Hong Kong, let's also take a look at
what's happening here because we've seen
now this is building into a fifth
straight session of losses. And again,
it's the tech story really bearing the
brunt of this. There's a couple of
different themes that we're tracking,
but you can see here that key one we're
really watching, which is price
competition between Alibaba, Maitan. If
you change the page, take a look at some
of these platform businesses. Regulators
are saying that they're going to have
new measures to try and re in the price
wars. This has been very intense between
Alibaba, JD, Maitan. Now they're looking
at the steps they can take. Are we going
to see cost investigations,
price supervision, enforcement actions?
That's certainly what's been vowed. Uh
but you are seeing again that that
selloff there so far in the chip space
as well. There's another story we're
tracking. So, Inner Science is one that
did drop yesterday in the session, but
you can see here a drop a decline of of
more than 6%. They are raising 1.5
billion Hong Kong dollars or just over
in a share price placement, and that
does represent a discount of nearly 8%
to the last close price. Other chip
stocks are watching as well because we
did, as we say, we saw some declines
yesterday for names like Hua Hong, SMIC.
Again, both of those off nearly 6%.
Today you're still in the red but but
not quite the same extent so far.
>> Yes. Uh maybe just to add to what Belle
was just pointing out and I think we'll
get to the chip story in a moment here.
Just keep in mind the China stock
leadership has pledged to break
involution and certainly you see it in
some of these names and how they've
traded this year. Mtoan BYD just to be
more specific. Right. Uh now back to the
chip story. Right. So we're taking a
step back. It's certainly been a very
good period and run and not to say that
run is over but certainly when you look
at the price itself here they've really
outperformed really staging this what
worldbeating
rally in recent months amidst this push
of course for self-sufficiency but you
know valuations might be on the loftier
side of things and testing maybe the
patience of some pockets of investors
out there. Genie you our Asia stocks
reporter is here with us to talk us
through the piece for the day. Yeah. So
how expensive are we talking here? Um I
think camper for example like all the
retail investors in China they would
call camper call like China's Nvidia and
that's trading like more than 150 times
you know forward earnings multiples you
know compared with you know I think
that's more than five times of Nvidia's
um forward earnings multiples so
obviously you're seeing a very very
crowded trade here um there are a lot of
reason behind those kind of frenzy you
know as we can tell you know all the big
Chinese tech companies that have all
those big capital spending to roll out
all the AI models and then um the theory
about you know China rolling out or more
policies to support you know to achieve
the uh cheap efficiency um in their own
semiconductor supply chain you know all
those news you know continue to feel a
kind of like frenzy um I think when we
talk to investors um the big question
they have is like okay this is a solid
story we're gonna you know it's a
multi-year story you know for Chinese
semiconductor for Chinese chipmaker
uh to play a catch up you know with the
US um US rivals but um the on the other
hand like this is really testing
people's patience about this um you know
how fast they can deliver the earnings
like how fast those things can be um can
be turned into into real gains you know
you know um and I I think that's one big
question you know when investors
consider whether they're going to chase
the rally from here or to take profit um
um and that's what that's one of the
reason we're ever seen like mainland
traders for example um after the golden
holiday um you know after Hong Kong
market opens they've been big seller of
SMIC shares because um because all the
valuation concerns going on it's
actually one of the most sold stock on
the southbound um trading links over the
past few days.
>> Yeah, it's a big question even when
you've got names like Camberon that are
saying the company itself what you're
seeing in the share price does not
reflect the fundamental as well. So uh
we'll get more on that now because that
was our Asia stocks reporter Genie Yu
there. But we do have a guest Ta Wang
joining us portfolio manager at Fidelity
very bullish on the broader AI space as
well. But Tasha we'll bring you in now.
So what what's your viewing what you
just heard there from from Genie and and
I guess what are we seeing in the China
chip space? Do you want to take any
profit or are you in this for the longer
term? Um well first of all we are still
in a bull market that has done so well
um so far year to date. There are
obviously two components to it. There's
the China component to it and there's
the chip chip and AI component to it.
With the uh China side of things I think
you know there's still um the the global
investor interest in China the equity
market is still you know sustained and
it's still strong. um macros improving,
valuations by and large still reasonable
and investors positioning is still not
that crowded. Um there's this sort of
secular narrative shift of China being
you know exporter of goods, cheap goods
to a place of cost competitiveness,
cutting edge technology, innovative and
disruptive business models. All of these
things are hard to miss out for global
investors. So I think that's the China
piece of it and there's obviously the AI
piece of it and the AI/chip uh piece of
it and I do think that AI is one of the
most important you know invest in
investment theme of you know that we are
seeing today possibly for quite some
time.
>> Um I think at a global level um the fact
that the technology continue to improve
and commercialization effort is
deepening at the same time. So they're
working together I think to make this AI
boom more sustainable. one going ahead
of the other is less sustainable but
technology and commercialization working
together is much more sustainable and
remember these things are being funded
by really really deep pockets now
another thing I wanted to touch upon is
that I think AI extends beyond just a
growth equity story it's a macro it has
strong macro implication as well the
dollar amount we're talking about
hundreds of billions of dollars these
are big macro moving figures
Um and you can definitely see this spill
over from commodities for example you
know big capex going on at big companies
and these companies may be prioritizing
spending on capex over hiring human
employees and that can cause a certain
softness okay in labor market which
forces central bank to react which again
adds to this jobless expansion and
creates you know more inflationary
pressure which again fuels the commodity
sort of potential super cycle going
there. So I think the narrative is big.
Um certainly there are stocks where
people may be a little bit nervous
taking profit. Yeah.
>> But you know there's much much bigger
sort of forces at play as well.
>> The I I think there's very little
question that there is promise in the
technology. Right. I think I remember
back people were debating as the
internet was just coming into into free
right. I don't remember anyone back then
debating whether it's a race for
internet supremacy. It's just that the
fact that everyone was better off having
the internet.
>> Yeah.
>> But as a fund manager, how useful are
valuations
for you to inform you of what to do in
terms of just portfolio allocation for
example or is it you know buy, hold and
pray?
>> Oh valuation is certainly very very
important. And you know we have the what
we call the FVT framework the
fundamental valuation technical all of
them are incredibly important. Uh but
valuation itself does not move market.
The market is not going to go either up
or down because the valuation is high
and vice versa. That's right. So it's
not the it's not a a driver per se. It's
something that you know you you keep
track of at the back of your mind
>> and there no red flags as far as your
framework is concerned. Going beyond
valuations looking at technicals for
example.
>> Oh technical is certainly very
important. we all in this too in the
market to to to trade, right? So, you
got to be very mindful of the uh the
technical side of things. Okay. So, you
know, I I would consider some of these
sort of uh technical adjustments in a in
a bull market at this point at least.
But when you're talking about the you
mentioned some of those the the sort of
the second order effects I guess or the
second order plays copper uranium are
they are they the sectors you're more
interested in rather than looking at say
the most obvious beneficiaries like the
Nvidas of the world or even the most
obvious beneficiaries in China. Um I am
interested in both but I recognize that
some of that super popular trades
including the China broader beta trades
they are consensus long right now and I
it it's not there's nothing wrong owning
consensus popular long positions. It's
just that you got to be mindful that it
is a consensus trade. Whereas I think on
the commodity side, copper, uranium,
they're less consensus.
>> And I like to think that the upside
reward is potentially more asymmetrical.
So what we call convexity. No, if you're
right, you're really right. You're less
wrong. Yeah. So uh so that's the way I
think about it. You always want to have
some consensus uh position in your
portfolio and some non-conensus uh
positions.
What do you think is lacking with the
uranium story? Because you think that
should be the people talk about how this
this AI trade needs energy sufficiency
behind it, right? And you think uranium
is the answer to that. There seems to be
a gap between where you think and where
the rest of the market thinks that that
is currently. Yeah. What do you think
that gap need what do you need is needed
to close that gap?
>> Uh the physical construction of these
projects. So nuclear projects are
notoriously takes long to to to to
construct t takes years and actually
that construction and by construction I
mean pre-approval you know getting
regulation right getting the funding
getting the fun uh get getting the thing
actually built and tested. So all of
that is a big deter uh big driver of you
know your return on the on the project
and big driver of you know whether you
end up investing or not. Now this is one
of the because it takes still so long to
to to to to make these physical projects
happen. Um you know the the physical
upfront demand right now is not as high
as what it could be in the future. What
this means is that I feel like at this
point it's a it's better expressed via
equity because equity is all about
forwardlooking growth
>> compared to the spot price of the
commodity which is more related to
demand today like usage today. So I
think that's the uranium story. I think
it's a longer growth story but there is
so much again convexity there's so much
symmetry to you know the potential
upside if you look at where we are
compared to historically maybe one or
two decades ago where this you know
where the the the market were trading um
some of some of the other commodities
for example copper much more present
gold super present on everybody's mind
so I think just even within the
commodity landscape you know they share
the characteristics of being anti-in
you know, being able to, you know, sort
of account for that uh inflation. Um,
you know, the share characteristics of
benefiting from, uh, you know, big capex
maybe related to AI the dollarization, a
lot of that, but they have their nuanced
differences in terms of, you know, what
actually drives their price action today
and tomorrow.
>> Okay. I think you're bullish. I'm not
sure.
>> I am. I I am I am rationally bullish.
You got you got that point across. Don't
worry, Tasha.
>> Tasha Wang there, of course. Happy
Friday to you. Hi to the team for us. Uh
PM there at Fidelity. Right. Coming up
here on shows, we will be checking in.
Oh, I like this. Uh on China's
hospitality sector after the Golden Week
holidays with one of the country's
biggest hotel operators. H World joins
us for an exclusive conversation coming
up next. This is the China Show.
[Music]
Well, we've got a another Whoa.
>> Yes, I know. I was like, well,
>> you got to look at the pricing on this
one. Obviously, this is a a pretty cheap
stock in Hong Kong when you maybe could
liken to a penny stock here. But we do
have a debut and and I mean you're
seeing a very big surge here for Golden
Leaf International on its first day of
trading. We've also got another listing
taking place is Shanghai Jeta Technology
also very strong surge uh but priced of
course a little bit differently.
>> Yeah. Well, I mean the fact that 170% is
the underperformer.
>> Yeah. I don't know why I downplayed
that.
>> How how things have uh actually turned
out. Okay. Uh let's talk about Golden
Week as we of course wrap up uh what's
really been a very long holiday. Markets
are reopening. You have uh one of the
largest hotel chains in China, Hwell
Group, says it actually saw a 36% the
36% increase in guest days over that uh
long holiday compared to uh this time
last year that included a 57,000 57,000
foreign nationals. 81%
occupancy across its portfolio and lower
tier cities also saw the biggest demand.
Joining us exclusively from Singapore is
Ji Hong, HWorld Group's Chief Strategy
Officer. Ji Hong, well, first very nice
to see you and good morning. Thanks for
joining us again. Clearly big numbers.
Uh
where does that now place you in terms
of your targets that you set out at the
start of the year? uh in terms of your
your your full year objectives now.
>> Very nice to meet you again, David, and
nice to meet you uh Annabelle as well.
Um yeah, we have the we had a really,
you know, the best uh holiday season in
our history uh you know over this golden
weekend. Um you have shown shown the
numbers. So we are very optimistic about
the the travel market in China and we
are on on the right track to achieve uh
a 2,300 new hotel opening this year. Um
and we have given our four-year guidance
and we'll stay we'll stay with our
fullear financial guidance as well.
>> What what did the makeup of the traveler
look like? I can see that you reported
for instance stronger overseas visitors
or or international visitors but what
was sort of the age range? What was the
spending pattern? What did you see
exactly?
>> So we see um travelers actually across
all age range. Um actually travel has
now become um I call it almost a
necessity in China. Now um after the
whole you know COVID experience people
really value experience over material
possession. Um so you know age of you
know genz
um you know normal normal age people or
even a lot we have seen a lot of civil
um we call them civil hair economy
retirees traveling as well.
>> Um this holiday season we have seen you
know surge of more all the uh 60% of our
travelers actually coming from uh young
generation between 20 and 40.
Can I ask you too, I mean these are very
impressive numbers. Um, we talk a lot
about here on the shows about some of
the price pressures we're seeing in
other industries to be more specific,
but I wonder u, you know, you run a lot
of properties across mainland and China
across different tiers of cities and I
wonder how you're looking at demand in
this economy and how that's affecting
your pricing strategy.
Um we have really seen a surge of we
call it a mass market travelers because
um you know after after all this
material possession people are looking
for how can I really uh you know cherish
my my my life. So we have seen people
really um um started to travel uh they
travel for for different reasons. They
travel for business of course, but a lot
of families are are traveling for for
adventures, uh for natural beauty and
also for a lot of um local um events, um
music music um events, concerts, even
grill festivals as well. And some of
them adventure out of course to remote
areas to look for natural beauty on a
solitude. So um we have 12,000 hotels
across China. Um our hotels, you know,
we do not only see hotels or good
occupancy in tier one cities. We see
more and more demand in tier three and
tier four cities even in remote regions
as well. Um so our goal is really to you
know to go with where the travelers go,
where our customers go. uh we developed
this um H rewards app which really
provides really seamless uh te you know
uh technology experience. So our app um
accompany our customers no matter where
they go you know um in in in where the
how remote it is and they can just check
in check out uh you know through our app
select our hotels on the app. So you
know we we are really um going very
strongly in the lower tier cities.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. So but on that question around
lower tier cities and I'm I'm interested
to know the pricing. Did you have to
shift your pricing at all to to try and
lure people in? What have your hotel
prices looked like for this period
versus say a year earlier?
So the lower tier cities um you know
actually the hotel price which is it
changes every day depending on the
demand and the supply on that day on
that season. Um in this holiday season
we have seen very strong demand from the
low tier cities. Um in octo October um
you know October 3rd more than 8,000
hotels are fully booked out. Um some of
the some of the cities lower tier cities
like um um in or orangutan
or
has been fully booked out. So you know
the price really you know price is a
function of demand and supply and we
have been seeing very good price
trending as well and our um average
daily rate especially sorry
>> but but have you actually had to lower
your prices versus a year
>> actually over the go actually over the
golden week our average daily rate in
tier three especially in tier three and
tier four cities has increased over year
over year um um and our average daily
across our whole portfolio also
increased.
>> Jung very quickly next year what are
your object what objectives have you
guys been setting because it's it's the
time of the year when you start looking
at 2026
>> yes um we we we look at um um the China
hotel market is really still an untapped
hotel market and it is the largest
single hotel market in the world. So uh
you know for the next five years we are
looking into double our hotels. So we we
looking at achieve um more than 20,000
hotels in 2030. Um and we will still we
will continue to drive the our fee
business. Currently twothirds of our
gross profit margin margin come from fee
business and we'll continue to drive to
drive this asset light business model.
So we will work closely with our um
franchises partners to really you know
open more hotels in China.
>> Ji Hong, thanks very much for your time
this morning. That was Ji Hong, the
chief strategy officer at H World Group
and we'll have plenty more ahead. This
is Bloomberg,
[Music]
right? Uh just welcome back about 25
minutes into the session and it's a down
arrow story across cash markets led by
tech led by Hong Kong. We're down about
1% there. Mi China is down about 9/10 of
1%. There's plenty more head here on
shows including of course we'll be
unpacking the latest anti-involution
measures that were announced going into
the Friday session. Plenty more ahead.
Lots more on the way. You're watching
the China show.
[Music]
All
right, we're just going to get you
started here with some breaking news out
of the Philippines where a very strong
earthquake has uh just hit a few minutes
ago. This is a 7.4 based on the initial
numbers that have come through. This is
in the extremely southoutheastern part
of of of the country uh towards a little
bit east of Mindanao which is the
southernmost island of the Philippines.
We are also getting a lot more uh
potential tsunami warnings coming
through here.
>> This has just also been announced in the
last few moments as well. So Indonesia
has now issued a a tsunami alert for
north Sula that is also close to this
region here that where the where the
earthquake has been triggered and also
for Papau as well. So we will continue
to update you on those details as they
come to hand. But just to recap the top
line which is a 7.4 for magnitude
earthquake has just been reported uh 33
kilometers eastsoutheast of of Bakolin
in the Philippines. So we'll leave that
there. We'll just take a look as well at
how markets are trading because we're
half an hour into the session now for
the hang and
>> you can see here quite a lot of pressure
that's building and and it's quite
broad-based really in the session today
as well. But uh the some of the biggest
movers that we see so far, it's
definitely a tech story which is sort of
not too surprising in the in the context
of tech really having led the rally is
this sort of investors that are taking a
breather. Are they looking at any
potential signals? Of course, you're
looking ahead to earning season as well.
It's going to be very pivotal testing
this thesis that that tech can be the
sector to really deliver. But the
biggest lagard so far at 10 cent,
Alibaba, SMIC, BU, JD, I mean a lot of
these names are in the red today.
>> And these are the names that to the
point Bel was just making that these are
names that have led this rally on the
way up. So in terms of just potential
triggers, uh, you know, there's also the
macro overlay here where you have a
stronger dollar that's come back. So
really, in many ways, that's really, I
guess, in some ways forced uh some folks
to take profits off the table as that
trade has sort of reversed this week.
The dollar is set uh for its best week
in 11 months and that's really not
really down to what's been happening
with the dollar but just the absolute
weakness we're seeing on the other side
with dollar yen at 153 euro at 115. Uh
we're also looking at of course a Kiwi
dollar that has massively underperformed
following the surprise cut um out of the
RB larger than larger than expected cut
and of course also a lot more in terms
of the surprises coming through this
week not just out of the RBNZ we'll get
into this later on but speaking of the
Philippines the Philippine central bank
surprise the markets with a cut
yesterday uh and of course other parts
of Southeast Asia we'll get into all of
this in a moment here but yes uh other
things CSI 300 Korean markets are coming
back online today
>> yeah well Korea's playing catch-up Here
you can see 1.4% in the green although
it is actually off the highs of the day.
So maybe it's also just catching a bit
of a drift downwards because you can see
the broader gauge is off 7/10 of a
percent. But yes, as we said uh Chinese
markets yesterday a day pretty strong
coming back from the golden week break.
But today of course you can see off 8/10
of a percent and there's a few different
sectors in focus but one of the main
ones is what we're seeing in terms of
regulators that are very focused on
anti-involution and and now very focused
as well on the price wars that you see
from the platform company side
>> where it's been really visible the price
competition across those
>> I mean it played into their numbers you
saw that in in mtoan's numbers for
instance really one of the ones bearing
the biggest brunt
>> yeah guidance and if it in fact if it
were not for the AI that suddenly comes
back. I would imagine those markets
would have had been treated those those
stocks as kindly as they have
>> uh given everything that's taken place.
But yes, to to Belle's point, right, a
joint statement yesterday, I think out
of two ministries coming out and
basically putting more meat in the bone
here as far as these anti-
anti-involution
uh priority is concerned. Let's bring in
Minor China correspondent to just help
us understand what that uh what the
statement was, what these rules were,
and how strong these measures these new
measures are. Yeah, I think it's going
to spell the end of the era of free milk
tea on all of these delivery platforms
because one of the most visible form of
the price competition is really really
cheap food on the food delivery
platforms. But of course,
>> yeah, these three companies uh Alibaba,
Mtoan uh and JD.com, they have already
pledged to step back from that
competition back in August. But we have
this stronger tone from the Chinese
government, from the market regulator,
from the economic planner NDRC putting
out the statement that says that
regulators will be stepping up price
supervision uh investigation and
penalties as well for companies that
repeatedly ignore warnings and continue
to engage in illegal pricing behavior.
And they're particularly warning against
below bidding or pricing among
companies. So uh the delivery sector is
a sector to watch but also the EV sector
because that's a sector where many
companies have been ignoring those calls
and continuing to to offer either
steeper discounts or at least keeping
prices at the same depressed level. So
perhaps we could see more actions being
taken against some of these companies.
>> That is the the platform company side
and as we said when you take a look at
what's dragging today Alibaba, JD and
Mtoan are some of the biggest losers.
But but what else are you watching in
terms of the session dynamics today?
>> Yeah, I mean it's so many sectors are
down, right? Part of part of it is the
price uh competition warning from the
government. So the EV sectors, the EV
stocks are all pointing downwards. Uh
the food delivery sector, but also as
you said the chip sector as well because
we have seen a a second day kind of
action going on because yesterday we saw
a big selloff very unusual move there on
SMIC and Hugh Hong off by about six
over% yesterday. We continue to see a
second day of a sell-off today. I
believe we can show the chart. Uh I
think it's down about 4% or so on SMIC.
Um and again, you know, Genie earlier
today was saying how yeah 5% down now
even further declines uh for Camricon,
Huah Hong and SMIC. And Genevie earlier
she was saying about she was talking
about how Chinese chip stocks are really
expensive. Now if you talk talk about
the price toearnings ratio even higher
than some of their global peers and not
surprising if you look at how much Huah
Hong has gained so far this year I think
it's close to 300% year to date. The
same thing for SMIC. It's a tripledigit
gain. So perhaps people are just taking
some profits off the table. Although
there was some rumors going on yesterday
um on so online which we cannot verify
by the way but there were some rumors
about how brokers are no longer allowing
SMIC to be used as collateral against
for margin trading. Again we can't
verify this but could potentially be
something that is causing causing
concerns among investors. Well, a
careless whisper would cause uh a drop
like this particularly at to your point
right when valuations um at about these
levels. Minman, thank you so much.
Minman lower China correspondent the way
to wrap up these markets. Yeah. And when
the chips fall, they they are falling as
we speak. Right. Just ahead here on the
China show. We raise a glass to the
world's best bar. of course is the one
in Hong Kong which is named of course
and its co-founder will be joining us in
a couple of minutes to well first tell
us how they did it and second to talk us
through the broader implications and
what this really shows as far as the FNB
and hospitality industry and the
challenges here that Hong Kong faces and
whether or not we're seeing a
cocktailled recovery Three.
[Music]
Welcome back. New Zealand's finance
minister says that she expects the
country uh to return to growth in the
third quarter with further acceleration
as we look into next year. Now, we spoke
exclusively to Nicola Willis and asked
her why the economy has been well so
fragile with a bigger than expected
contraction just recently.
>> Look, we we know with uh the seasonal
variation since co that those numbers
have been jumping up around and there
could be some correction to that figure
at a later update particularly uh given
some of the technical factors in that
measure. But we were expecting a
negative second quarter. Uh and what we
saw is after six months of strong growth
and recovery prior to that including a
0.9% positive rate in the first quarter
of the year. Uh that on the 1st of April
when the Trump tariff announcement
occurred that really knocked confidence
out of a lot of New Zealand businesses
and investors who looked at that global
uncertainty and for a global trading
nation really worried about where that
would go. We're now in a much more
settled environment. We know what New
Zealand's tariffs are and we've watched
our exporters adjust very quickly uh to
that new reality and many of the worst
side scenarios uh that had been
predicted haven't occurred. And so we're
confidently predicting that growth will
have returned in the third quarter and
should accelerate in the fourth quarter
particularly helped along uh with an
official cash rate that continues to
fall. Yeah, I do want to you mentioned
business confidence there and the latest
business confidence report showed firms
planning to reduce investment. How much
of a concern is that for you?
Well, we've worked uh as a government in
this year's budget to provide more
impetus for business investment through
the investment boost tax policy uh which
offers uh a 20% write down on asset
investments against tax bills. And
that's directly uh intended to be a tax
incentive to encourage investment and
firms have certainly said that that is
something uh that will make some
business cases stack up that wouldn't
otherwise. And as we look ahead with a
lower official cash rate with inflation
now having stabilized back and banned uh
and a government that is ultimately pro
business reforming deregulating we
believe that's creating the conditions
in which businesses will feel more
confidence over the coming months.
>> All right so you're expressing some
optimism but of course we had the RBNZ
the Reserve Bank cutting rates by 50
basis points last week saying it's open
also to further reductions. Does that
suggest to you the central bank doesn't
share your optimism that it's worried
the economy won't recover?
>> Well, I think that was uh the Reserve
Bank doing its job of reacting to data
in the second quarter that as you
pointed out was much more negative than
had been forecast and quite different
from what they had forecast and what had
informed their earlier monetary policy
path. So uh the bank is reacting
accordingly and of course with that uh
lower official cash rate that in itself
will be uh an inject for the economy and
that's in my mind monetary policy doing
its job. As a government uh we're
working alongside the Reserve Bank by
ensuring that our fiscal settings give
them that room to move uh on interest
rates by ensuring that we're not
overstimulating the economy and that we
have a path of fiscal consolidation. Uh
and so look, the Reserve Bank itself is
continuing to forecast that there was
growth in that third quarter and they
agree with our Treasury assessment that
growth will forecast over the coming
months uh getting back up to very
healthy levels next year.
>> Well, Treasury will deliver you another
forecast in December in its halfyear
update. What are you expecting in terms
of that forecast? Do you think it could
be cut and what would that mean for tax
revenue?
Uh well look uh so far actually our tax
revenue is holding up. Uh we released
our uh one-year and review financial
statements yesterday uh and they de
demonstrated that the tax take was
actually up on what Treasury had
forecast uh at the budget that it would
be. In fact all of the indicators in
that update uh essentially uh were a
little better than we were predicting
our core fiscal measures that the
government is targeting uh around net
debt. net debt actually stayed steady.
Uh when we look at the deficit, uh that
was smaller than we were expecting and
spending as a proportion of GDP was also
smaller. We're on target to reduce that
over time. So uh at this juncture,
Treasury's updates in terms of the real
data rather than the forecast data are,
as I say, uh running positively uh
relative to forecast.
>> Obviously, the longerterm goal here is
to get the budget back into surplus. Can
that be achieved by 2028? And if not,
when do you think it could be achieved?
>> Well, that remains our uh fiscal goal.
Uh and we do think that will be achieved
in our latest budget. Uh we were getting
to surplus um out out a year beyond when
we would like to. We've kept that goal
of doing it a year earlier. Uh and in
order to achieve that, we're following a
path of fiscal consolidation. We have
had very low operating allowances.
That's the discretionary spending that
the crown does. Very low uh relative to
where they have been historically. And
we've supported that with a savings
program that so far has delivered around
43 billion worth of savings. Uh we want
to get spending back down to 30% of GDP
where it's broadly sat historically for
New Zealand. It leapt up over 34% uh
during the co era. Uh and we think it's
a much more sustainable position to get
that back down. We've charted a path
that gets us there and we're confident
that that surplus path is achievable
with fiscal discipline.
That was a new New Zealand finance
minister there, Nicola Willis, speaking
exclusively to Bloomberg's Paul Allen.
And central banks in the Asia Pacific
have gone three for three this week on
surprise rate decisions. You had the
RBNZ kicking things off by cutting its
key rate 50 basis points was 25 basis
points. It was anticipated. The Bank of
Thailand also held steady. Some have
been agitating for a cut, but you did
see it sending its currency higher as
well. And then also yesterday, we had
the the the Philippine central bank
unexpectedly reducing its rates as well,
and they're looking at sort of the the
economic unease. Well, that that
corruption scandal ongoing is is
certainly continuing to make waves,
Dave.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's the fact that it
showed up in monetary policy when very,
you know, few economies actually saw
that coming. Yeah. Uh we did hear of
course we spoke with a stock exchange
operator this week and he was very
direct and say that's the that's the
reason why the market's been
underperforming and I think I've read
some reports that the SEC head the
securities regulator head in Manila also
blamed the the corruption scandal as
really just the the crux of the the the
the vacuum of confidence among investors
and really why
>> the markets declined
>> foreign and local investors
>> foreign and local and locals are leaving
uh so foreigners are I think the that
the the Philippine Stock Exchange was uh
was talking about this week. Now, just
to to break down all those numbers for
us and what's really been a week of
unexpected,
suffice to say, surprises really in
parts of the this market where we
weren't really expecting to see any
surprises. Uh Swatty Pandy's with us
right now, our Asia uh Pacific economy
reporter. Yeah, Swatty, is there a
common thread between these three uh
what we've seen so far, or are these
more idiosyncratic factors?
Um it's a mix actually. So the common
factor is that uh the domestic economy
required what the central banks did. Uh
but individually they all have their own
nuances. So for example in the case of
Thailand uh the economy has been weak
and the currency has been going up
surprisingly um and there was
expectation that the the Thai central
bank would cut interest rates to support
the economy but the central bank's own
judgment was that they could wait and uh
see whether the previous stimulus is
feeding into the economy and and they
just wanted to remain a little bit more
patient uh before cutting interest rates
further. In the case of New Zealand,
they did not want to be patient. Uh they
did not want to do the 25 basis points
that was anticipated. They they thought
that the economy needed bigger stimulus.
Uh they've been kind of like felt like
they were running out of patience on
waiting for the economy to really show
that animal spirits that they would like
to see. uh inflation has been subdued
and uh really since last year business
confidence and economic growth in New
Zealand has uh been pretty
disappointing. Um and Philippines again
was was the corruption scandal right
like you mentioned uh people had not
expected that to come up in the monetary
policy statement and decision- making.
Uh so in that respect uh like the common
thread is that the decisions were made
purely on individual to domestic uh
reasons uh and uh and those reasons were
different for these different economies.
>> That's interesting. So because when you
take a look at it sort of in aggregate,
one of the easy conclusions you might be
able to make as well is that this could
be related to to President Trump's trade
policies for instance. So is that having
any sort of bearing?
U look trade uncertainty is something
that policy makers across the world have
spoken about even though we now have
greater clarity on what those reciprocal
tariffs are. Uh so uh in in that sense
uh Asia is not as worse off as it was
anticipated let's say in April. uh and
um and the policy makers are cognizant
of that fact. Uh the PMI data that we
have seen out of Asia has also been
mixed. Uh there was a report from
Goldman Sachs uh last week which showed
uh which said that the impact um on
manufacturing activity factory activity
uh has been disproportionately negative
or has surprised disproportionately on
the negative side uh for uh Asian
economies. So that does remain a factor
uh in decision making. Policy makers are
worried about how these tariffs may
impact their individual economies and
given that inflation has remained
subdued in the region. Uh many countries
do see that as uh giving them more room
to provide support to um economy by
providing that stimulus.
>> Swatty, thanks so much for joining us.
That was Swati Pandy there in Sydney.
And we do still have a lot of monetary
policy moves to watch because we've got
China, Indonesia, South Korea, Pakistan,
and Japan. Of course, this is very much
a live decision as well to to cap us off
and that's just before the end of this
month, Dave.
>> Yeah. Yeah, not to even mention it. The
Fed U and uh yeah anyway, but yeah, the
Bank of Japan's going to be interesting
given the developments recently and
might they actually I guess in some ways
comment uh on this currency which has
really been on the weakers and might
that actually be a reason for them to
actually then lean into into some
tightness. Now the reason I bring that
up is we're getting more commentary
coming through and just to mention this
out of the Japanese officials and more I
mean do we call this verbal
jaw boning? uh Mr. Kato Kato
commentary on it and we have seen that
this week but yeah the finance minister
Kato just speaking now in in in Tokyo
and saying that the government's going
to be closely uh investigating or
examining excessive FX moves. It's
important that that the moves as well
reflect fundamentals. It's that word
stably again that we discussed earlier
this week, but they do want it to be
moving stably and also commenting on
stock prices as well because these have
been reacting to Takiuchi's uh election.
Uh
>> herself commented yesterday that she was
not in favor of excessive yen.
>> Yeah. So this has been interesting
because she did yesterday exactly kind
of push back on this notion that she
would necessarily support a weaker
currency. She also has been careful I
think to couch the the independence or
to to highlight the independence of the
BOJ from uh from the government which is
something that was an early misstep of
of Ishiba when he took office. He he he
made comment on the direction he thought
the BOJ would take. So Takiichi has been
distancing. So we did see that initial
sort of relief being reflected in in the
currency but it's certainly still very
much on the weaker side.
>> Yeah. 153 against the dollar. Not to
mention the other crosses there. U just
ahead here. Just this is a bit of a hard
pivot here, but yes, we'll we'll be
talking about uh Chinese bicycle maker
and the founder and CEO of folding bike
maker Tahon. David Horn will be joining
us in a couple of minutes about the
company's recent listing here in Hong
Kong, their expansion plans and really
what they're seeing as far as the the
industry is concerned. Yep. So David
joins us in a couple of minutes. Uh, and
ahead of that, of course, we'll be
looking at the and giving you guys an
update of this massive earthquake that
just hit Southeast Asia, south of the
Philippines. More on that in a moment.
Plenty more ahead.
[Music]
uh to our viewers just joining us right
now, you're looking at, of course, this
is the website of the US uh GS and as
you can see, there have been several
strong earthquakes and we'll talk about
the the one in blue now. So about let's
call it 25 minutes ago under 30 minutes
ago an extremely strong earthquake hit
the southern part of the Philippines.
Initial data suggests it was a 7.4 four
magnitude quake uh eastsoutheast of
Pakulin in the Philippines and as you
can see that's towards the southern
southeastern part of the country and
since that point in time we've had
either related related earthquakes or
other earthquakes in that part of the
world fairly strong ones too and that's
also prompted authorities to put out
fairly uh pointed tsunami warnings that
could uh result of course from from
these massive earthquakes. Yeah, it does
seem to be strongest for the
Philippines. So, we're now getting a
tsunami threat forecast uh that we could
see waves reaching 1 to 3 m above the
tide level. That's possible among some
coasts or along some coasts of the
Philippines. Also for Indonesia and
Palao, we're hearing that tsunami waves
could reach between 0.3 to 1 m above the
tide level. That's what we're hearing.
Of course, you know, this can differ
from the forecast, but we are just
seeing these second order effects given
you did have that earthquake just being
reported as you said in the in the last
half hour or so.
>> Yeah. Okay. Again, recap. I think we now
have a more details on this too. So, the
Pacific tsunami warning center just to
reiterate what Bel just said, uh,
tsunami waves reaching 1 to 3 meters
above tide level are possible along
parts of the Philippines. It's also
worth pointing out and a reminder that
it was very recently that the central
part of the country also uh was struck
by a fairly strong earthquake u and just
to recap of course everything else
that's taking place but yes but go ahead
Bill
>> no I was just going to say that also
we're getting some commentary here from
the the director of the state seismology
agency in the Philippines saying that
this is a an earthquake that's 10 km
deep so they're still continuing to
collect more information uh but as you
said yes those hazardous tsunami waves
are possible So, we'll bring you more
details as they come to hand, but that
is the latest we have on this earthquake
just recorded in the Philippines,
Indonesia, and Palao.
[Music]
It's 11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese
markets are just about to go onto their
lunch break this morning, and we are
seeing a move to the downside here. So,
it's very much reflecting the broader
sentiment today in Asia. It is riskoff
following what we had on Wall Street
overnight, concerns about valuations,
but also this has been a pretty sharp
runup in in Japanese stocks over the
past few sessions as well, given you've
got investors that are really
reappreciating what what the equity
picture or the dynamics will look like
under Takiuchi. And on that point, of
course, as Takiuchi takes that
leadership position or is said to take
the the prime ministership in Japan, one
of her early tests is going to be the
negotiations or the trade relationship
with with the Trump administration. It
is possible that President Trump makes a
stop in Japan uh later this month or or
within the next few weeks. And we are
just hearing from the trade negotiator
here, Akazawa, speaking in Tokyo, saying
that Trump is interested if US cars have
a presence in Japan. But of course it's
it's a car market very much dominated by
the domestic players.
>> Yeah. and small streets like I think we
were we were joking about this a few
months back on you know people have
never seen a massive F350 pickup truck
in the streets of Japan and because
they're not built for that but but this
is a ongoing story of course it will be
continue to track and also just to
mention too because we are entering
earning season in the US and also in
Japan we have a thick of earnings
already coming through there in fact and
you got to wonder how corporates there
will be framing two major macro themes
one is the exchange rate and to what
extent this actually does benefit a lot
of the exporters there and number two
the politics and the trade uncertainty
out there. We'll put those two three
things together next time for you. Um uh
just a reminder Taiwan markets are shut
today. We are looking though at declines
across the benchmark itself and not that
Taiwan would have helped if it were open
today. Uh Korea is coming back online
today after being shut for several days.
That is the offset uh but still not
enough as you can see clearly 610 to 1%.
S&P futures though are indicating that
we might get a slight bounce going into
going into the weekend. Apart from that
uh tech uh which is really a function so
top row left side is really more a
function of what we're seeing over in
South Korea. We should also point out
that if you look at Chinese tech which
was um had come under tremendous
pressure yesterday is still about an
hour into the cash market session also
coming uh on cash market uh on pressure.
Can we please also if we have the can we
have a board there on Chinese tech just
to just just underscore visually what
we're seeing across this market as well.
So Hangen Tech last we checked was down
over 1%. We did see some pressure there.
BU Alibaba were down substantially.
We're down about 1.7 there. Can we show
that guest uh that graphic please if we
can. Uh Hen Tech index please. Thank you
so much. Uh we're looking at declines
there of about 4 and a half%. Thank you
so much. There we go. Uh just to
underscore that point about an hour here
into the cash market session in in Hong
Kong.
>> Yeah. And uh let's stick with the Hong
Kong theme because there's been a a
deluge really of companies going public
this year. Very much a red hot market,
but one of those has been Daron, which
is China's biggest maker of folding
bicycles. Uh shares have surged 36% on
its debut just a month ago, but have
since given back much of those gains. I
mean, I do want to put it in context.
were trading around 51 Hong Kong dollars
a piece today. They were offered around
that price as well. That's what they
were sold at in the IPO process. But
let's bring in the Dahong founder and
CEO, David Hong, joining us this
morning. So, David, talk us through the
the the the IPO process, but also the
trading debut and and how you've also
monitored the dynamics in in in the
period since.
David, are you there?
>> Yes, I'm here. I have uh viewed your
questions and have prepared answered.
>> Yeah, go ahead. So, so David, we were
wondering, it's been a few weeks since
the sheriff's listed. How has the
business been and what plans do you have
for the money that you guys just raised?
um business continue to grow or
accelerate.
uh and uh we h we are pretty happy to
see uh a growth uh from our initial uh
period a growth of somewhere between 25
to 30%
uh already up and down was uh so we are
pretty excited about it
>> and and what does the growth look like
to you what's your expectation around
how how the business goes from here are
there any key markets you're looking at
or key products.
>> Uh well, we um uh uh have been growing
accelerating fast against the general
trends of the world bicycle uh scene and
um uh we we are happy about it.
>> Okay. Tell us as we I mean we're
entering the fourth quarter of the year
and I think the one of the some people
say the blessing some people say the the
downside of being a public company is
you know the market tracks financial
performance David and I wonder how you
you think your business is tracking this
year as we go into the final three
months of the year relative to what your
expectations were at the start of 2025.
Uh it's a little faster than uh uh we
expected uh uh you know based on our
recent growth uh recent years of growth.
Uh we have u for the first four months
grown by um uh almost 50% in sales. Uh
and the profited uh profit after tax has
grown uh perhaps uh 70%.
And is there a growth rate that you are
targeting or you want your team to
endeavor to achieve in in 2026? David,
looking at the business,
>> yeah, there is a a high probability that
we would come within uh our target of uh
uh tax um profit up tax
of about um um
40% growth from last year and uh at
about u uh uh over 800 um 8 80 million
uh R&B.
>> Which which specific consumer segments
are showing the most resilience and and
how as well are you tailoring your your
products to those consumers?
Uh we will our main stay of course has
been in folding bikes but our recent uh
uh business has expanded to ebikes uh
and uh road bikes
because of our tech technology.
Yeah, David, I I was actually wondering
for a global audience that is looking at
the company and foldable bikes for
example, what do you think sets your
product apart? How what's the
differentiating strategy that you can
put that you can implement really uh in
really a let's put a a mode of transport
that's been around let's call it for
hundreds of years.
Well, um I think um uh the bicycle uh
has been around for a number of years uh
more than a century. Uh but there are a
lot of uh uh weak spots in the bicycle
design. Uh not just fully bike. Uh we
are being uh one of the strongest R&D
team in the industry. Uh we are uh we
have actually uh made a lot of new roads
um and solving a lot of the existing
problems and now some of our uh better
folding bikes are outperforming
uh than over uh name branding B name
brand uh road bikes uh by a by quite a
bit in spite of it small side size
wheels. So we are very very um excited
to uh we have actually started to
partner with some uh name brand um uh
regular bike companies uh to uh improve
on their products.
>> Oh David, could you tell us more?
Uh well um you know road bikes the one
of the main or the main uh issue is to
uh or or or
sell some point is speed but now our
foldability
uh bikes are in some cases in many cases
actually are quite a bit faster than
these uh uh road bikes. So we have
already uh started producing our road
bikes uh and uh uh a lot of our growth
comes from uh road bike um uh fans uh
turning to uh our product because of
votability and transportability
in a urban society.
um either because of home space and also
because of transporting ease of
transporting them to uh um you know um
outside you know to to parks and green
green greenways
um mostly out of the urban city.
>> David, thank you so much for taking the
time. We'd love to speak with you again
and certainly a fascinating business and
business model. Um I actually saw I was
in Shenzhen a few weeks ago. I actually
did catch some of your products on the
streets. They're fantastic. David David
Hon, thank you so much. Founder and CEO
there at at Tahon in in Shenzhen for us.
Plenty more ahead here on the China
show.
[Music]
Right, welcome back. We'll get you guys
an update. The breaking news this hour,
that massive earthquake that hit the
southern Philippines. The Pacific
Tsunami Warning Center says that
hazardous waves are possible along uh
the coast of the country, 7.4 earthquake
based on initial numbers that have come
through. Let's bring in our reporter out
Manila, Neil Jerome Morales to tell to
tell us more about what we know so far
about what's taking place there. Neil.
>> Yes. Hello there. So, uh government
officials, local officials, uh civil
defense officials are uh expecting uh
damage and tsunami from this. They have
been receiving reports that uh schools
uh buildings uh residential uh homes
were uh damaged. Uh they have they have
seen seen some cracks on the building so
far and uh according to uh videos and
photos on social media and media reports
there, people have evacuated homes. uh
they're lining up on the streets to uh
remain safe from the aftershocks of this
uh massive earthquake
>> and and talk to us about those um
aftershocks as well because we've been
talking about the tsunami threat that
that's also been included.
>> Yes, definitely. Uh so this earthquake
is a relatively shallow 10 kilometers
deep. So the tremor is really felt on
the surface. So uh there are ongoing
aftershocks right now. So people are
still uh panic, people are still uh
fearing for their uh safety that's why
they are still outdoors. Uh some cities
have uh canceled classes already and uh
some are expecting a cancellation in
government work and then uh officials
have ordered evacuation of uh people to
higher ground especially the coastal
communities lots of coastal communities
in this area Davo del and Davao or
Orientala Davo del Norte. So uh you have
to be careful uh in terms of tsunamis.
Yeah, and for our global viewers, of
course, those are provinces in the
southern part of the country. Jerome,
just final question for you. Given the
location of where this earthquake hit,
did any of you guys feel it in in in
Manila?
>> Yes. Uh, thanks. It's a bit far from uh
from the um epicenter. Uh, but uh yeah,
the the damage would be uh really on the
southern part of the Philippines. And uh
partly it could uh maybe it could be
felt in the central Philippines which
just uh suffered from the deadliest
quake in 12 years in the in the
Philippines. So uh really uh awaiting
some more developments on that part.
>> Neil, thanks so much for joining us.
That was Neil Jerome Morales there in
Manila. Uh we'll have plenty more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
All right, welcome back. Just an update
here. In fact, we're just getting a lot
of breaking news this hour. So, Hash
Key, uh we are learning that the company
is mulling
>> um an IPO here in Hong Kong. So, they
could be pursuing a listing here in the
city as soon as uh this year. That's
according to sources and it just in
terms of the the money that they're
looking to raise about half a billion uh
in the Hong Kong. That's again based on
uh sources.
>> Yeah, it was one of the first two
exchanges in Hong Kong to be licensed.
Uh so so it would be quite a significant
one. Uh but we will leave that there
because we also have another big story
that we've been tracking this week in
Hong Kong. It is of course Friday and if
you are feeling thirsty well it seems
like you could be doing a lot worse than
heading to Baloni which is an Italian
theme outlet that's just been named the
world's very best. It's the first time
an Asian venue has taken the crown and
this one is only about 3 years old. So
joining us now is Balion co-founder
Lorenzo Antinori in studio with us. So,
we were just talking there in the in the
outbreak about the the process and you
weren't sure if you would make it to
number one, but just talk us through.
Yes, you you weren't called number
three. You thought you might be number
three. So, just just finish off. You
made it to number one. What happened?
>> Uh well, it was an incredible emotion
because we got called as we thought we
were number third and then suddenly they
announced that the winner and uh we were
on stage. such a such an emotion
especially being in Hong Kong and uh the
the whole event being hosted in Hong
Kong in front of our friends and our
family. It just made it so special and
uh yes it it will take a few days to
recover from from this but
>> recover from the party do you mean or
recover from the from the award?
>> I mean it's been we we we were just me
it's only been three years and you guys
have gone I would from strength to
strength. How do you like as someone who
oversees the product and your your
offering, how do you like where do you
go from here? Like how do you improve
the the bar?
>> It's a good question. You know, we never
take these awards as the ultimate goal.
The the awards are a consequence of the
work that we put on every day uh in in
the venue. For us is always been how do
we improve what we have and u from you
know yesterday we came back to the bar
and okay we need to change some tables
needs to be fixed the lighting the music
so every day is an opportunity to
improve the product and the quality
because I think this is what actually
consumer are looking for these days we
>> we'll go more into what consumers are
looking for because we talk often about
how how challenged the backdrop has been
for FNB in Hong Kong and and how much
people haven't been willing to spend
spend on on pricier offerings. What what
does it look like for you?
>> I think it's about really focusing on
creating quality experiences. I think
after covid consumer nowadays are
picking the moment and the time uh to go
out to uh to to spend their money and uh
and I think those moments need this to
be quality moments need this to have um
also the reason why I think Baron was
successful was because um consumer
managed to probably connect on an
emotional level with the venue itself
and um we we are very mindful about the
pricing that uh that we offer and and
the quality. So I think moving forward
is going to be really that balance
between quality, affordability and
creating also a space that is accessible
and is affordable the most. M
>> much has been made over this trend as
you go further down the demographic the
younger the crowd the less people tend
to be drinking these days. Is that how
is that affecting how you look at the
business generally speaking?
>> And is that something you're seeing by
the way?
>> For sure. I think uh the younger
generation um they are more I think they
have more knowledge about what they're
drinking.
>> Okay.
>> Um this is because of all the media
tools that we have.
>> I think it's important from our end as
an operator to uh understand their needs
and just create offerings that are able
to fulfill their their needs. So having
a a good quality non-alcoholic offering,
having a vegan option, a vegetarian
option on the menu, I think it's very
important not to be stubborn. It's
important to be flexible, to be dynamic,
and and constantly uh be able to change
the the offering and being able for
changes.
>> Can we ask you though what what the
average spend looks like and and has
that changed at all over the past three
years
>> since you've been winning and winning?
>> Well, Baron, we are an Italian cocktail
bar and I think at the at the heart of
any Italian experiences, that's where I
where I was born. There is always the
this sense of conviviality. Food and
drinks come together with people and
friends. So the food element for us was
very important and uh I'm very open you
know 20% of our revenue is food which is
pretty high for a for a cocktail venue
>> and um and I think you know we are
looking at probably uh just over 250 on
dollar as a average but of course guests
in Barleon come and they don't just have
cocktails they come they sit they have a
meal yes and I think that's really what
makes the space the place special for us
u food drinks friends all together and
then suddenly these uh these guests they
don't go for dinner they just stay
longer in in our venue and and and it's
great
>> well I I have to say so I the number of
times I've been to the bar was before
you won number one in Asia and world and
one of the first things I actually
noticed was how good the food was at
your place so so kudos on that now
you're in a good position now because
you're number one in the world to in
some ways be a satellite and a sort of
representation of the the FnB industry
in Hong
This next question is not a focus on the
negatives, but what do you think the
government needs to do to improve the
flow of tourists into Hong Kong and to
really make it an FMB center?
>> I think the already there has been some
great efforts. I mean, having the
opportunity to host world's 50 best here
in Hong Kong, Asia's 50 best in Macau.
This is incredible. You know, all the
friends, all the professional, the
industry leaders coming to Hong Kong for
5 days. Uh these are the type of events
that we need. And I think and I'm sure
that the government will will will uh
keep them having uh coming to the city.
We need them. It's a great also a moment
of conviviality and community which
makes our industry so special.
>> So you've you've have Baliona, you've
you've branched out into Montana, but
what's next? Just give us a sense of of
the the pathway.
>> I like that you mentioned Montana
because it's our new baby and I'm very
proud of it. Well, we are uh we are
opening we're going to open Barleon in
Shangghai.
>> Uh it's going to happen in November. We
are very proud because I I I love
Shanghai is a city that has an amazing
FMB very thriving and uh so November is
the is the the months for us
>> where where in Shanghai just very
quickly
>> it's going to be in French concession.
>> Oh there we go. Futier fantastic. That's
a fantastic location.
>> Thank you.
>> Uh thank you so much and congratulations
again Lorenzo Antini there Barleion and
Montana co-founder there. Uh and uh for
our viewers and clients, you can catch
an insiders guide of the money and
people shaking up uh the finance hub
here in Hong Kong. The news of edition
newsletter and of course this award is
part of that newsletter this week.
Platarhead
>> uh this Oh, actually no.
>> Well, you mean we can if you want, but
we can also do
there are a lot of things that are
moving today in the session and SMIC is
one of those uh with uh extending its
drop, but we'll get more details on
that. We'll leave the bar stuff up here.
Great segment. More ahead.
Oh, okay. No. Okay. So, we we've had a
little bit too much cocktails already.
I'm kidding. No, we didn't have
anything. Okay. The fact that we are
ending the show here on a fairly bright
and sober note to be more specific is uh
just takes us back to market. But, okay.
You know what? Since we're talking about
this, Bill, what's what's your go-to
drink?
>> You you asked me that and I just
couldn't even remember one. I Yeah,
wine, I guess, to be honest. Yeah, but I
have been to balon. It's very nice.
>> A good glass of red and some Okay. Um
>> we'll get to SMIC because I do think we
want to get into this story. Yesterday
we saw it really dropping significantly
in the afternoon session. Today it's
accelerating that decline in the morning
session as well. But there is report
that brokerages have cut the stock's
margin financing ratio to zero and
they're concerned about valuations that
exceed regulatory thresholds. It's also
fueling concerns over stretch pricing.
And I think it really puts into
perspective how important the upcoming
season or earning season is going to be
for some of these chip players in China
given you've got a lot of hype around
the industry but how much real
innovation you actually seeing on the
ground. Another stock that we're
watching is JL Mag Rare Earth rather
because this is a company that's just
reported its earnings third quarter net
income looks to have risen pretty
substantially or that's what they're
expecting up to a 220% gain year on
year. and leaving you here with a final
picture of the studio for us. But as we
said, happy Friday to everyone.
Obviously, we need a weekend
>> insight with Linda Min is next.
[Music]